---
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1523961131990-5ea7c61b2107?crop=entropy&cs=srgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHw0fHx0ZWNofGVufDB8fHx8MTY0NTk5MDg4Mg&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&q=85
coverY: 0
---

# The Cycle of Threat Intelligence

There are typically five processes in a method or cycle of threat intelligence.&#x20;

1. Goals&#x20;
2. Collection
3. Processing (analysis)&#x20;
4. Dissemination&#x20;
5. Feedback

You need to have some type of objective or _**goal**_ that you want to achieve with that threat intelligence. What is it? What questions do you have about the threat and threat actors? That may be driven by the types of services you offer. It may be driven by the audience or your customer base. If you're involved in any type of work with the Department of Defense (DoD), Department of Justice (DoJ), or any type of defense or federal criminal justice organizations, then nation state threat actors would be a threat group that you want to take a look at. There's a lot of espionage that occurs. There's lots of valuable information and activities that other foreign entities would want to know about, and even try to disrupt the capabilities of the adversaries. You need to know what the goal is, what the organization's needs are.

Once you have a goal in mind, once you have the objectives in mind, once you have questions that you want to answer, you need to go about finding sources to _**collect**_ information to help respond to those questions and those goals. Your collection can come from a variety of sources. You can look on Twitter. Twitter is a very powerful threat intelligence platform. If you follow the right people, you're going to have a heads up on lots of things going on before it ever gets into the media. There's platforms like MISP, which is used as a threat intelligence platform. Alien vault is another threat intelligence platform that reports from federal agencies and from private industry. There are some fields that are public, others that are curated and private, and some that you have to pay for to get access to.&#x20;

So where do you get your information from? Where do you collect it from? It's going to be based on the industry that you're in. There are some threat intelligence feeds that are only available to people in specific industries. They get intelligence based on what industry they're in. It can be used to be more actionable. Once you have that data collected, you need to put it into a format that's easy to read and interpret.&#x20;

You have to _**process**_ that information, which also includes analysis as well. You're going to take that raw data, put it into a format, and extract relevant information. You may even discard the other non relevant information, like extracting IPs from CSV files. Or knowing the the repository for potential threat actors and expand. By looking at their code or looking at what they're developing to see, you know how that could be used. There may be new ransomware tools that the threat actor uses that you're aware of. You may collect information about that, and then stop processing. What is the case? What are the capabilities of this particular tool that is relevant for our organization for detection, mitigation, and things of that nature?&#x20;

This part is really sensitive, because you want to understand and trust your threat sources, where you're collecting from, because you don't want bad information. You don't want bogus information, and you also don't want to process information and remove relevant information. And you may have two organizations with the same threat and with the same information collected. But each organization may use it in very different ways. One may extract this information, while another organization may ignore it because it is not relevant to them. It requires really understanding, again: what the goals are, what the objectives are, what questions you are trying to answer.&#x20;

Your processing should help with plucking out information to help you answer the question - the goals, the objectives, etc. But it also includes analysis. You're interpreting the information that you're extracting. You're looking at this raw data, and analyzing it. Is this relevant to me? Is this particular field, this report, something about this - relevant? That's what you're processing. That's what you're presenting in a form that makes it easy for you to navigate.&#x20;

You're going to create meta tags, you use metadata, to organize and structure in a way that tells a story. It's going to build up to this climax, and then you're going to take that and _**disseminate**_ that information. You're going to make it available to your customer, or even make it available to the public. This is done especially if it's an attack that you have not seen in the wild, but as a SOC, for example. You may see the same behavior of malware, targeting different industries. And you can  write an intelligence report on it, and then disseminate to the public or to a slice by US CERT. You can let them handle contacting the affected organizations or software company to fix the vulnerability that's been exploited, or make them aware that they've been compromised. If you are a SOC analyst, and you happen to detect the attack coming from an organization you don't monitor, and disseminate into your customer, whoever it is that has questions and needs to know about that information. You disseminate it to them over secure channels, via meetings, via phone calls, and one organization. They are a SOC company, they have weekly briefings with all of their their clients to help them understand what they're seeing in the organization, versus what they're seeing out in the wild, and whether or not they see or are actively blocking threat actor behavior.&#x20;

_**Feedback**_ is important. Once you have a finished polished report, you will disseminate it the those who consume the information. Those people will let you know if the information it was relevant, if it was usable, or if it was not actionable. But, you didn't give any information on what to do about that, or how to use the information. So feedback can be very good to really strengthen your threat intelligence capabilities and report writing. Eventually, you get very little feedback. It's something that you know, comes with practice and comes with time as you're developing your threat intelligence skills.&#x20;
