# Threat Emulation & Threat Intelligence

But the threat emulation process, the plan is developed based on intelligence resources. That's why you want to ensure that you're extracting the relevant information from your sources. Ensure that it has been disseminated from a reliable and trusted source. If possible, have a mechanism to provide feedback. Your plan is based on either threat intel from an external report or - especially for a SOC analyst - you may know of threats going on that target a specific organization. With that information you have based on the logs and the behavior you are detecting, you can create a heat map, apply that and create a playbook.

Threat intelligence is really important for threat emulation, because you are able to mimic the behaviors of the adversary. It really depends on how you choose to perform the threat emulation exercise; you can take systems and offline and set up a network. But you want to be absolutely sure that the offline network looks just like the network that you're trying to protect against.

Here's a nuance with that: if you're in a SOC, you can't duplicate every single organization you're monitoring, because it may be dozens of organizations. In that case, what you're doing is taking systems and you're learning about and you're performing that exercise in that lab. What you're really looking for are the logs that are being generated to detect this. You can create playbooks out of that, and feed it into your Sims. If it detects that behavior, it can generate in the appropriate alert.&#x20;

For those who are doing this within the organization, a couple of ways you can do this includes offline. You have the domain server, and four or five systems that are set up and configured exactly like your organization of computers. That's really, really important. You want to be sure they look like and are configured with the exact same controls as your organization, so that you know how your controls are going to behave. Based on that emulation exercise, on skin TTPs, the behavior of the threat actor, and the destructive and non destructive means, you can run the threat emulation exercises on your real systems. It's actually encouraged to do so.&#x20;

What you're gonna see with Caldara, Mitre, Infection Monkey, Prelude, etc. you're going to deploy an agent on your systems, which is going to simulate a threat actor. Then you perform a series of steps to collect information, perform actions on that computer, attempt lateral movement in the organization, etc. That will allow you to see how your real network responds, and if those those controls you have in place are going to work.
