# Navigating the Att\&ck Matrix - Defense Evasion

In these are much more advanced attacks, where you're probably dealing with sophisticated attackers, you have this defensive evasion. If they're able to gain admin privileges, then they can start disabling things like Windows Defender, your antivirus, or your EDR software in order to prevent from being detected.&#x20;

The defense evasion methods you see here are methods they can use to prevent themselves from being identified. Now, stopping the antivirus program is, is pretty egregious, because if the organization has monitoring software, they can tell the antivirus was stopped or or uninstalled. And then they can reinstall it. And then that may, you know, identify the the adversary. So what mean adversaries will do is find out what type of anti virus the organization has, or EDR they have, and then write the software and test it against it to see if we can detect it. And if not, then it's even better because they don't have to do a whole lot of invasive, invasive measures in order to have the attacks. And then you have the credential access to the system. And this is where they're trying to steal account names and passwords, and maybe donors from multiple users on this on the organization, so that they can again, maintain persistence, because adversaries are going to try to maintain persistence on several systems in the organization. Because if one system is identified or is taken offline, or crashes, I mean just general crash for whatever reason, then they may lose access into may lose access to the organization. So they're going to try to maintain access to multiple computers. And so that's why they do credential access. So we can log into multiple computers on the multiple accounts to maintain that access. We'll pause for just a minute to take a drink of water because my mouth is getting very dry.
