# Page 3

then we have discovery as part of the process for enumerating the organization. Discovery means that in order to start to figure out what other systems you have in organization, the users devices, etc. And that can have many purposes. One it could be to make To try to maintain persistence on other systems, or find other systems that can compromise to escalate privileges, find out where your sensors are acidic and evade those. And also to gain credential access, if they can find another system that can compromise, they can potentially get admin access, and then dump credentials. So, you know, every process in one of these tactics here, you know, it depends on the attack group. So not all are going to perform the same actions. So that discovery may have different purposes. And again, here are the techniques that they use for discovery. And then lateral movement, lateral movement is when they move to other systems in organization. And that's what makes incident response and cleanup very difficult. Because you need to understand first the behavior of the adversaries and what their tools are, and then start to, you know, use tools and other resources to determine on which systems are they do they reside on. And as I mentioned before, last in the last video, if you have, you know, 100 systems, the attackers will probably compromise about 10 of those just to maintain access they want, it's not likely going to compromise all 100 systems. But once this may compromise, it's going to be very, very inactive, highly inactive. And so that's the the main sleeper is sleeping is waiting for, to perform some action. So this lateral movement is when mass compromises are, or do become a nightmare in the organization. And these are the techniques that are used to achieve this goal of lateral movement. And then you have collection collection is when they discover information on a system, or get credential access, and other methods, whatever they're using, and they zip that data up usually, and then exfiltrate it out the organization. And so you have different techniques that are performed here, even audio capture, especially if you are able to or they are able to get access to a system of a executive, an executive or someone that has really privileged information, they can enable the the audio on the microphone on the system, and then capture what's being discussed. clipboard data is another interesting one, you copy things to your clipboard, you don't empty it, then that information could be exfiltrated, including a collect, Excuse me, could be collected include things like passwords. And then here are other techniques, and sub techniques. Command Control, this is a system that exists outside of the organization has compromised, whether used to send commands and perform actions within the organization that they've compromised. So you have a host that has malware on it. And then malware just gonna sit there and asleep for a period of time. And then F a certain period of time is gonna communicate out to the command control server and determine if some action needs to be performed. Maybe it's going to give them a command prompt, maybe it's going to download a new version of the malware that they use, yes, attackers are in systems for so long, that they upgrade their their malicious code. And then they upgrade it on the couple mass system as well, because it has new techniques and things that carries out on the system. And then here are the various techniques that are used for command and control. Such as nasty and a port, which means that they're going to use a port that's abnormal, for example, you know, web is H is HTTPS is 443. But they may use 777, for example, that stands out. And it's a little noisy, but it depends it depends on the organization, are they looking for nostalgia ports been used on on the network? Let me move back over here. And then exfiltration. This is the process after the collected data to now going to steal it or remove it from the organization. And these are the various techniques they used. They use in order to exfiltrate the data.
